---
title: "LMOOC research 2014 to 2021: What have we done and where are we going next?"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023
excerpt: 'Education field: We implemented Latent Dirichlet Allocation topic modeling method to analyze the trends of LMOOC research from 2014 to 2021.'
date: 2023-01-04
venue: 'ReCALL'
paperurl: 'https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/4843E616C31DBE1745B4184E1B56A065/S0958344022000246a.pdf/div-class-title-lmooc-research-2014-to-2021-what-have-we-done-and-where-are-we-going-next-div.pdf'
citation: 'Zhang, Y., & Sun, R. (2023). LMOOC research 2014 to 2021: What have we done and where are we going next?. ReCALL, 1-16.'
---

This study reviews 71 high-quality studies of massive open online courses focused on languages (LMOOCs) that were published from the inception of LMOOCs to 2021. The purpose of this study is to gain a deeper understanding of the current state of research and identify fruitful directions for future LMOOC research. First, we reviewed three basic sets of characteristics of these studies: (1) research trends – for example, publication types and years; (2) research contexts – for example, countries in which the studies were conducted, the subjects’ target languages, language-ability levels, skills, and whether the focal courses are for specific purposes; and (3) research design, including data collection, data analysis, and theoretical frameworks. We then utilized a text-mining approach called Latent Dirichlet Allocation that uses machine-learning techniques to identify research-topic commonalities underlying the collected studies. In this way, a total of nine topics were identified. They were: (1) core elements of LMOOCs; (2) interaction and communication in LMOOCs; (3) innovative LMOOC teaching practices; (4) LMOOC standards and quality assurance; (5) LMOOC implementation, participation, and completion; (6) LMOOC teaching plans; (7) LMOOC learning effectiveness and its drivers/obstacles; (8) learners and learning in LMOOCs; and (9) inclusiveness in LMOOCs. These were then diagrammed as a ThemeRiver, which showed the evolutionary trend of the nine identified topics. Specifically, scholarly interest in Topics 5, 7, and 9 increased over time, whereas for Topics 1 and 6, it decreased. Based on our results, we highlighted specific directions for future LMOOC research on each of the identified research topics.

[Download paper here](http://ruoxisun-zlyue.github.io/files/paper.pdf)

Recommended citation: Zhang, Y., & Sun, R. (2023). LMOOC research 2014 to 2021: What have we done and where are we going next?. ReCALL, 1-16.
